---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

"Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."

Oftentimes, it is important to recognize that the code can be improved not by adding more code, filling it up with tedious and useless code that can be confusing, but by slimming it down and streamlining the existing code. There are often huge portions of code that are just unnecessary and confusing, and these can be reduced to improve the code. Outside of code, in design, minimalism has been a very popular trend in the past years, and minimalist design emphasizes reducing the layout to just the bare necessities to give a clean and sleek look.

"Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong."

In this lesson, it challenges the notion of problem solving. Sometimes, we become so engrossed in attempting to make our solution of the problem work, we forget what the problem itself is. It helps to take a step back and reconsider the process that led us to our solution in the first place, and perhaps question whether it was correct in the first place. It may seem counterintuitive to drop what you've been working on, but if you have been working in the wrong direction, it is important to put ego aside and do what is most efficient.

One of the lessons I liked the most from *The Cathedral and the Bazaar* was "The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better."

In this lesson it proposes where new ideas can come from, and sometimes, those who use the software are those who can give the best input. Viewing software from the side of the developer can sometimes blind people to obvious problems and shortcomings; they know the software well enough that blatant problems are missed. The general user is the one who would catch these; if there are issues in things like intuitiveness and usage, it is obvious to them because they are having trouble learning to use it, developers do not have to learn to use it, they have been engrossed in it for a while. This is important to me because it emphasizes the importance that users can have to developers: providing invaluable feedback and direction of the project.

Regarding the team project, we have decided to begin work on making our own coding challenge as opposed to contributing to documentation. We are aiming to design a coding challenge that meets the criteria and covers material not already covered by FreeCodeCamp existing challenges. We will have to learn some YAML to be able to format the criteria appropriately.
