---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

In the cathedral model, the code is limited to a small group of developers in between releases. In the bazaar model, which is probably more common nowadays, the code is always viewable by anyone. This is more reminiscent of GitHub, as the every single commit is viewable by everyone, typically. I personally prefer the bazaar model, as it allows more people to look at and make their own changes to the code. Bugs can be found more easily, changes can be implemented more easily, and there are just generally more people able to work on the code and fix things before major releases. It embodies the idea of open source software better, in my opinion. 

These two lessons were the most interesting to me:
* Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.
* The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better.

In the first, it challenges the notion of problem solving. Sometimes, we become so engrossed in attempting to make our solution of the problem work, we forget what the problem itself is. It helps to take a step back and reconsider the process that led us to our solution in the first place, and perhaps question whether it was correct in the first place. It may seem counterintuitive to drop what you've been working on, but if you have been working in the wrong direction, it is important to put ego aside and do what is most efficient. 

In the second, it proposes where new ideas can come from, and sometimes, those who use the software are those who can give the best input. Viewing software from the side of the developer can sometimes blind people to obvious problems and shortcomings; they know the software well enough that blatant problems are missed. The general user is the one who would catch these; if there are issues in things like intuitiveness and usage, it is obvious to them because they are having trouble learning to use it, developers do not have to learn to use it, they have been engrossed in it for a while. 

We have begun looking at tasks to work on and have begun attempting to contribute code as well as documentation fixes to the FreeCodeCamp repository. We have decided to work on certain documentation issues and adding materialt through article stubs. 
