---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---
### Open vs. Closed Source Development

The concept of open source software in itself can be incredulous to believe. Software essentially comes to life through free collaboration, essentially with anyone from anywhere adding contributions as they please. Some advantages of open source are clear: issues that would be overseen by a smaller team are more often than not caught, as with so many people looking through the same code, someone is bound to see the issue. With so many contributors, the project can get on its feet and implement features and fixes quickly. Additionally, the software can evolve and take shape to fit a huge variety of uses, and thus gets more exposure in that aspect. 

It does, however, have its drawbacks. For one, there is often no dedicated support team. This is absolutely huge for business usage. If the business wants to have a feature implemented, or has issues with a certain software, for a closed source software, they can contact the company and pay to have the feature implemented, or receive feedback on the issue they are having. This cannot be done with open source software if there is no dedicated support team; the community can only do so much. I find the topic of open source software to be fascinating, and would love to make some contributions to actual open source projects, thus I signed up for this class. 


### What open source projects do I use regularly?

There are a ton of open source projects that are regularly and heavily used, and we may not even realize they are open source! Many of them are considered leaders in their respective domain, and have made large impacts in their sector, permanently influencing and shapihng future software development. To name a few:

#### Python

A high-level general purpose interpreted language created in 1991, Python has grown to be the 3rd most used programming language in the world as of Jan 2019. It is frequently used for a wealth of purpose, especially in  mathematical and scientific fields, as well as data analysis, scripting, finance and more. I personally use Python as I find it to be a fantastic programming language; it is clean and easy to read and implement features, and it offers a wealth of tools that a programmer might find necessary. Python draws similarities to other languages like R, another language often used in mathematical and scientific fields.

#### WordPress

WordPress is a fantastic tool to help people create webpages. It allows for incredible customization, offering a wealth of extensions and features to the user and allowing them to build modern, functional websites. I have used it to develop course websites in the past, including [Papiers-Mâchés](http://interactivefrench.hosting.nyu.edu/). Alternatives include Wix and Weebly, but I personally feel these are both inferior.

#### Handbrake

Handbrake is incredibly useful for video editors, allowing for video files to be converted to various formats with a wide variety of encoding methods and specifications. One can finely tune the size, resolution, quality, encoding, etc. of the output desired. I have used it to convert video files to meet certain specifications. Alternatives include MeGUI, StaxRip or even VLC (with very limited functionality).  

#### VLC

Known on the Internet as the video player that can "play any format", VLC is a lightweight free video player. Wielding an incredibly unassuming appearance looking like it came out of the 2000s, VLC surprises many with the incredible amount of features and functionality it offers. It may well be the textbook definition of "function over form". I use VLC to play files that I cannot seem to play anywhere else. Alternatives include MPV and MPC. 
